>> Speaker 1: Can you do the exporting
GIFs and videos with these shader,
with shader templates as well?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Mm-hm, mm-hm, yeah.
>> Speaker 1: So
the main Canvas sketch doesn't change,
it's just the template you're using?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah, the template
is really just a copy-pasted sort of
preset thing that I've decided on, but
all the actual structure is the same.
So you can hit Cmd + S
to save a PNG from here.
You can also change the dimensions just
like we were doing before to be like 512
by 512, and all the sudden you get
a fixed size every time you export it.
And you can even do things like use
preset sizes here, pixels per inch,
and all of a sudden you're
taking a shader and
you're exporting it as like a print
artwork, which is kinda neat.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
yeah, you can do anime.
So it's already animated, animate true.
You can just set the duration like 4,
and maybe set an FPS as well,
which is pretty common when
you're doing GIF exporting.
So like FPS 24, maybe I'll set these
dimensions back to something normal for
a GIF like 512 by 512 and remove this,
cuz I don't want it to be too big.
And now if I was to save this out,
it would end up giving me,
in whatever folder my output is,
it's gonna, like if I hit Cmd Shift + S,
it's gonna export hundreds of
frames over dozens of frames.
And that's why generally whenever I'm
doing GIF I just make sure my terminal
command is saying output is equal to,
and then some temporary folder, just so
I'm keeping my folders
a big more organized.
But yeah, now you can see it's
exporting all these frames, and
I can create a GIF out of that.
And you can actually, cuz you know
how earlier we were using time, and
that wasn't super helpful for
seamless loops?
So instead of using time, you can change
this uniform to say playhead, and then
you just take the playhead prop, you pass
the playhead prop down to the uniform.
And then here instead of using
time you'd use playhead,
and you'd multiply it by pi or pi 2 to
get those perfect, seamless loops again.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: Is there anything else
that you would use besides FragColor to
manipulate a given pixel?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: There's FragDepth,
which is another topic.
It's like around the depth buffer and
it goes back to that question you had
earlier about how do you sort things.
But generally speaking in this version
of WebGL, in this version of GLSL,
the only thing you really need to be
concerned with is this GL FragColor.
There's other built-in variables depending
on what you're using shaders for,
cuz something we haven't really
talked about is vertex shaders.
So there's actually in this
I think this shader example
here in the repo,
custom shaders and three.js.
I think it introduces vertex shaders,
yeah.
And because so
far we've just talked about pixel shaders
where these are pixel shaders
on the surface of a mesh.
And then when you actually change
the topology of the mesh that's when you
start to get into vertex shaders.
And it's just another string,
another source code just like the ones
we've been writing so far,
except instead of outputting a FragColor
you're outputting a position for
each triangle in the mesh.
And I didn't want to get far into them cuz
it involves a little bit more math, and
it involves some other
concepts that you have to
build your way up to
understanding those things.
But you can definitely follow this guide
and get the same sort of output of these
exploding triangles, and it's animated and
it's moving and stuff like that.
And the same concept is used
in this demo that I have here.
Just to show you what it looks
like when you explode a 3D mesh,
or in this case a 2D
mesh by its triangles.
So when it's filled in you can
see that it's just a shape, but
when you see it like that, when it's
outlined you can really get a sense of
the triangles that make up this mesh.
And the vertex shader is what's
creating this animation.
And vertex shaders are really good for
doing this kind of stuff because they
are really fast and really efficient.
If we try to animate each of
these individual triangles
manually it might be slower.
Whereas with the vertex shader you can
animate millions of things at the same
time, and it's still gonna be
running at 60 frames per second.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
this link is also I think in the modules.
And there's a lot of other stuff, too
that I hadn't really covered getting in
the whole Canvas sketch ecosystem,
because so
far I've been wanting to to focus more
on like Canvas API and are on three.js.
But the actual tool that I've
been building Canvas sketch,
there's things like using a sync and
a weight and using asynchronous functions.
And this hot loading thing is something
that I haven't even really shown, I just
showed a very basic example, but you can
do some cool stuff with it for sure.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah,
just wondering actually, let's see.
definitely if you're interested in this,
just take a look at
the Canvas Sketch Repo.
One of the things I showed in one of
the slides was Pen Plotter artwork,
and that looks like this.
And this kind of thing is actually
exported with Canvas Sketch as well,
and so
right now in our render functions, so
if I was to look at,
let's say I go back to my 2D sketch file.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So remember how
we have this render function, it returns
a render function, and it's just like
React where you have those props.
And every time the props come in,
you give some context settings.
You can actually return something
at the end of this function.
And depending on what you return is gonna
change the way that the file exports.
So right now if you return the canvas or
the context I guess you could say,
it's gonna just render a PNG,
but if you return an object
that says extension is a .txt and
data is hello world.
And then I was to run this
through Canvas Sketch,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Now it's running,
and now when I export,
instead of exporting,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Well,
I mean, it should,
I might have messed something up.
But instead of exporting
a PNG It will export a txt file.
And you can do the same thing to export G
code if you're sending something to a CNC
or a robotic printer, and you can actually
get into pretty complex workflows.
One of the things I did, let's see.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: I don't
know if I have an image of it, but
another example for
more advanced print is.
Let's say you're doing print
that's using risograph or
offset printing where you have to
send a print to a print studio and
they actually ask for three different
layers or three different masks.
And they say okay, instead of it being
in color I want all of the shapes in
the background to be black and all of the
shapes in the foreground to be black but
I want them to be two separate PNGs.
And then the print studio will
end up doing silkscreen or
they'll end up doing some technique that
gives it a much more organic print look.
And so you can actually code your way
through that instead of just rendering
a single canvas you can export
multiple PNGs and stuff like that.
So it's definitely yeah,
it's a bit more complex than it looks.
We've just been taking some of
the basics and making sure that we're
focusing on the basic concepts that
aren't so specific to Canvas Sketch.
Cuz the idea is that you're probably gonna
go back to whatever you're doing this
stuff on, whether it's or
anything else, or Frontend.
And you might not be using Canvas Sketch,
but
the concepts we've talked about are pretty
much they apply no matter what.
I mean, there's a few specific API things,
but they should apply generally
across the board, whether you're doing
Frontend or three.js or whatever.
>> Speaker 3: Have you ever generated like
noise, like pixelated noise type stuff or
do you know resources for
that sort of thing,
or-
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Like for
what purpose, I guess?
>> Speaker 3: Almost like a speckle noise
effect, you know what I'm talking about?
Almost like a subtle texture.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: You're
getting into a current project?
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH] What's that?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: No, just kidding.
Yes, so you can actually use
noise from a noise function,
just like what we were
doing with the shader.
So here's an example, where's our noise?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Basically, you
just change the frequency to be much more
frequent, so here you see,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: This
is a frequency of 5 versus
a frequency of 0.5.
And if you were to use noise and you were
to use a frequency of 50 or 100 or 5,000,
then you can start to get
these little speckles and
you can start to get that
effect like you want.